# DKIM

Domain Keys Identified Mail ([DKIM](https://dkim.org/)), is a message-based signature that uses cryptography to sign email and verify that your email was not altered in transit.  Email signed with DKIM confirms your legitimacy and trustworthiness as a sender, which helps deliver your messages to a recipient’s inbox rather than to their junk or spam folders. Over time, DKIM can have a positive impact on your domain reputation, improving your email deliverability.

A DKIM record is a specially formatted DNS TXT record that stores the public key to be used by receiving mail servers when verifying a message’s signature. A DKIM record might look something like this:

```shell
v=DKIM1;t=s;p=MIGfMA0GCSqGSIb3DQEBAQUAA4GNADCBiQKBgQDBzXkunA
132Pf3SwHF7UKTODjFW8JKXUFWCHcNLvRHPCFDzJDPuAuoZq0XAIoOStu+Qq+/
ggm1zDYbgsaIkOmkBWV9m/NPQ3BbXNEnCqjsyVxWlrQs0R01W4ihsHM8BkbE7
dGRot1DdDM1HBMxrMDEOPuEZaNjtpgcJVRqswz7YwIDAQAB
```

Where:

- `v=DKIM1` indicates the DKIM version
- `p` indicates the the type of key (in this case, public)
- the very long string that starts with MIGfMA0GC is the public key itself

While [the protocol may be very complicated](https://dkim.org/), the short version is that the DKIM process works thanks to a private/public key pair, and requires two main actions.

1) As your email is leaving the outgoing mail gateway, a DKIM signature is added to the headers of the email. The email gets signed with a private key in the shape of a unique ‘hash’ string of characters.
2) Recipient servers then use the public key published to your domain’s DNS to check your DKIM signature on incoming messages. Once the signature is verified with the public key by the recipient, the message passes DKIM and is considered authentic—which means the source of the message has been verified, and the body wasn’t changed in transit.

## DKIM Requirements

In order to protect email and comply with upcoming requirements from large email providers like Google and Yahoo, all 'tamu.edu' subdomains will be required to have DKIM signing configured for all outbound messages.  At Texas A&M DKIM signing is configured on our outgoing mail gateways, the ProofPoint Security Email Gateway (SEG) and Google Workspace (Formerly G Suite).

However, DKIM signing can also be used by third party mailers.  DKIM signing is required for all mail sent from third party mailers impersonating the root 'tamu.edu' domain and all 'tamu.edu' subdomains. Third party mailers can include marketing platforms such as MailChimp and Constant Contact.  See [KB0021277](https://itselfservice.tamu.edu/tamucs?id=tamucs_kb_article&sys_id=KB0021277) for more information on sending mail using third party mailers.

## Check DKIM Record

The easiest way to check your DKIM record is to use the command line:

1) Open the console or command line on your computer.
2) Type `nslookup -q=txt <selector>._domainkey.<subdomain>` where `<selector>` is the DKIM selector and `<subdomain>` is the 'tamu.edu' subdomain name.

```admonish info
The `<selector>` is generated by concatenating `pp` to the last six letters of the md5 hash of the 'tamu.edu' subdomain.  For example, the subdomain `itsec.tamu.edu` would have a selector of `pp8c7326`.
```

3) Press "Enter" to execute the command.
4) The output will display the DKIM record for the domain, including the public key and other information.

```shell
echo -n 'itsec.tamu.edu' | md5sum
143825e21a964eeb4309c2cebc8c7326  -

nslookup -q=txt pp8c7326._domainkey.itsec.tamu.edu
;; Truncated, retrying in TCP mode.
Server:         128.194.254.1
Address:        128.194.254.1#53

pp8c7326._domainkey.itsec.tamu.edu      text = "v=DKIM1; p=MIIBIjANBgkqhkiG9w0BAQEFAAOCAQ8AMIIBCgKCAQEA3MYooD9FUigquzWIyVZlnsDAV5Ma" "72SuKngNyMXssCzk4ecJSozKVBh589KyYNvyKJQ6SVCytbnlLle0YCGnmvMLr9Z513pf80HfXA0GBqPbmBAvoI+hr3LjCSgmo3jhzb69Bt45YjXNnMNGcP6sL2Ybxt2F" "QLkqVBlj8TRd0iskSAXLiKn3dwzjt4eeYzBs/Iz+9omL4sbGzR07hIx9HIq0NI2Q7WZi0HuDDyYtbNFKlMjlBjfpkKrnQxUkUW6Fq5l9zf1yBrSpTXfvHT/8AGzYO3U/" "wK1hUIB7d9I6+s0pK1At9zSFBAdXw/2Ze79wDBTBZ6bdGr8Hs4aWzyiFIQIDAQAB"
```
